In the previous video,
we started out in a classes discussion.
So we've created the gearbox class.
So let's now go back to the main class in
our main method and actually add some code
to actually test some of this
functionality that we've actually added.
So now that we've actually made those
changes, we need to delete some of
the way that we've done things
in the past and change that.
So I'm gonna delete that.
And we're gonna come up now and
start entering some code.
So the first line's still correct.
We're going to actually add a set of
Gearbox, or a Gearbox to a mcLaren car.
So it's got 6 gears,
let's now add 3 to it, so we type mcLaren.
Do a addGear.
And the first one's gonna be 1,
the ratio's gonna be 5.3.
Second one, 10.6.
And the third one,
we're going to make that 15.9.
Let's now operate the clutch, so
we'll do mcLaren Laren.operateClutch.
True.
Like so, otherwise we can change gears and
get a print out of how fast
the wheels are actually spinning.
So we'll do that first, then we're gonna
do an example of not changing the gears to
see what happens,
to make sure the code's working.
So we'll change the gears now
that we've operated the clutch.
So mcLaren.changegear1.
So change into first gear but now if
we actually set the clutch to false so
mcLaren.change gear sorry
operate clutch I should say.
Operate clutch to false.
I'm trying to change into second gear.
What we'll do, after the operate clutch,
we'll actually print out,
WheelSpeed(1000), 1000 revs, and
then we'll do that afterwards as well,
after we've changed the gear to second,
at 3000.
We'll then set the, well actually
let's try running that first, and
see that it's actually working.
As you can see, we've gear one selected.
If then you have 5,300,
as the rules state, and
of course the calculation there
is 1,000 times the ratio.
1,000 times the 5.3 is 5,300.
We are going to grind and that's because
we weren't operating the clutch.
We set that to false and
therefore the actual wheels, the wheel
speed is actually zero at that point.
So we've actually changed that again
to McLaren.operateClutch to true again.
Car into third gear, third part so,
and McLaren.operateClutch false.
And we'll do a printout of the new
speed again mcLaren.wheelSpeed(6000).
If we run that, so still up here.
Again you can see Gear 3 was
actually selected successfully, and
operating clutch is false, but we haven't
actually tried to change the gear, so
therefore the speed is still correct.
It's just now 95,400,
which is 6,000 times 15.9.
So basically as you can see there,
we added gears to our gearbox.
We can change the gear,
we can get a printout of how
fast the wheel is spinning.
And we forgot to operate
the clutch when changing gears,
it'll either grind the gears, or
cause the engine to scream when it hits
the red line and bounces off the limiter.
Now notice that we didn't have any
reference now to the Gear class
in order to drive the car,
and that's because the Gear class is
local to that Gearbox class itself now.
Actually in either class.
So really, the addGear calls
a part of using the Gearbox.
So if you go back to our Gearbox class
again, back up to the constructor,
you can see there that really,
the addGear calls, here, calls to that.
They're really part of building
the gearbox and not actually using it.
So therefore, you could consider that it'd
be better to put them in the constructor
of our GearBox class.
Rather than actually having
them as separate calls,
which they actually are now.
When we've actually added them here.
So let's actually go ahead and do that.
So what we're gonna do is change that.
Some code here, for(int i=0; i<maxgears;
i++) + addGear(i,
i * 5.3),
machine ratio's the same for all.
That's now actually adding
individual gears to the gearbox.
Once we've done that, we can of course
then remove the calls to addGear in main,
cuz it's no longer
appropriate to have those.
So I'm gonna delete those there now.
And of course we can run it,
and it should still work.
And as you can see,
it's still actually working.
So, as you can see going our example of
actually adding the gear class, private
party, the inner class, it really can
be a good way to improve encapsulation.
So, objects only know about other
objects that they need to know about.
So, in this particular example, nothing
apart from the gearbox needs to have any
details about the actual gear,
so we hide the gear class
completely by making it a private
in-class of the gear class.
So, you're not accessing
the gear class at all
in anything other than
the actual gear class itself.
That's really a great way to
encapsulate that functionality and
to restrict other people
from accessing it.
Now, obviously if we were
writing a stuck control program,
then the program would have to have
some knowledge of the different gears so
they could be ordered or request sent to
a manufacturer to make them for example.
So you really need to decide how your
programs should be designed to work
doing that or figuring out how to do that,
that's really the great skill of
object orientated programming.
So that's inner classes.
But now there's two special
cases of inner classes.
And that's local classes and
anonymous classes.
So, local classes are declared
inside a block, such as a method or
an if statement, and
their scope is restricted
completely to that particular block,
so I like anonymous classes,
which can be very useful and
we're going to be seeing them shortly.
These local classes are used less often.
Theoretically, you could argue that
they increase encapsulation because
they're already declared within
the block that uses them, but
in practice, you, probably not often
that you'll need to or wanna use one.
But let's actually show
an example of this.
So one example that might be useful is as
a comparator, when trying to sort objects.
To demonstrate, what I'm gonna do
is create our own button class.
I'm gonna attach a listener to it, so
our code will execute when
the button is clicked.
Now we go ahead and create a new class and
then we call that button.
I'll just close down the run window for
now, and
we'll create string field called title.
Then private OnClickListener
onClickListener.
And we'll fix that error in a minute,
we'll create that class, and
we'll actually add a constructor.
Constructor be just for the title,
and we'll also add a getter.
And the getter is just going to be for
the title as well.
Okay, then we wanna add a function
to set our on click listener, and
also one to handle the click, so we'll
do public, void, set on click listener.
On click listener, on click listener, and
it's gonna be this dot on click
listener equals on click listener.
Then we wanna do public void onClick.
this.OnClickListener.onClick.
this.title.
So, the buttons.
Just gonna sit on click listen to method
that I just created that's used to assign
an object to the button.
In order we have to handle those clicks.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
create an interface for that so,
you can add that here.
Public interface unclick listener.
And public void unclick and
passing the parameter string.
That now fixes that all up, so
we can see now we've implemented
a setOnClickListener,
which is passed the parameter
of the OnClickListener itself.
And we set that field that
we've defined up here
to be equal to the value
that's passed to it.
And likewise in clicking,
what we're doing is we're passing
on the fact there's been a click,
which is using the OnClickListener field
Calling the OnClick method itself.
So to see how that works,
let's go back to our main method.
And we'll comment this out,
cuz we don't need that for now.
And what we'll do is we'll
actually add some code.
We need a scalar first.
And I've got the static up here,
private static
scanner, scanner equals new scanner.
The systems button.
There's also credit button
private static button,
button print, equals new button.
Print, set that import, so at this point
we can now create a local class that
implements that on click listener
interface, and assign an instance of it to
our button, and how we will do that
is we'll do that in our main method.
So I'm gonna delete this code now so
it clears up a bit of screen space, so
we'll do class, and notice how I'm typing
this within the method main class.
ClickListener implements OnClickListener,
public ClickListener,
this is our constructor.
We could have actually used generic,
but I'll just type that out now.
We'll say, I've been attached.
When the constructor is actually called,
that's the point where the list
has been connected to the button.
And the onClick,
we're gonna write that function.
Even if we wanted to, we could do
an override, or implement I should say.
Click on onClick, and we'll change
that to actually show the message.
We'll say title + was clicked.
So that's how a local class that we've
actually defined within the method.
We then need to attach it to our button
field, which was initialized up here.
So we're doing button,
print .set on ClickListener.
New ClickListener.
So we've created that class and at this
point, normally what would happen is,
assuming that we're using some
sort of graphic framework
that will actually automatically
respond when a button is clicked and
that the unclick method would
actually be invoked for us.
But because we're not using
a graphics framework,
we're gonna simulate that listen
method from the keyboard.
So let's actually create
a method to do that.
It will be private, static, void listen.
Boolean quit equals false.
You've seen character
symbols these before.
While not quit.
Int choice equals scanner.nextInt
Scanner dot next line.
Switch choice.
We're just gonna have two simple options.
Option zero is gonna enable us to quit.
So, quit equals true, we case it.
Case zero.
And then we do a break, like so,
that should have been there.
And case one is going to
simulate the actual button print.
So button print dot unclick, and then
what we'll do then is add the code here,
to actually call this function to the top.
This one up here is actually
going to call the method.
So now if we run this.
I've been attached, which is the call from
the constructor within the class listener.
And first you type in 1.
Print was clicked.
And that's obviously at that point using
the OnClick method, which has been
implemented from the interface, and
it's actually been executed each time.
The main thing to notice here,
is with the local class,
how it's actually been defined.
Is applicable just for that block only.
Of course we can enter 0
to quit out of our program.
So this particular method using a local
class could probably be pretty useful if
you want to assign exactly the same
object, say to several buttons,
if you had several buttons on the screen
at the same time, for example.
The class is not used anywhere, so
making it local in this
particular scenario makes sense.
Cuz we're not actually using this in
a shared environment or anywhere else,
implementing it as a local class within
this method does actually make sense.
So, let's move on now to
our anonymous classes.
So, an anonymous class is also
a local class, but it's got no name.
They have to be declared and
instantiated at the same time,
because they haven't got a name.
And I've used what a local
class has required only once.
Now this might sound like it's of even
less use than the local class but
in fact they're very common for touching
event handlers to use in an interface.
For example if you're
programming Android apps.
I do use these a lot on my Android
course just out of interest.
That's quite likely,
as if we do have several buttons that each
would require a different on-click method.
So using a local class might
not be the better solution.
In other words if you got four or
five buttons on the screen,
chances are you don't want the exact same
functionality to be called each
time that button is clicked.
For example one button is
to quit out of the program,
another one might be to print something.
For the code to actually execute, it might
be different depending on the button.
So, this is where an anonymous class can
come into use or can become quite handy,
cuz what we could do in that example is,
rather than define a class for
each button, we could use an anonymous
inner class to declare an object and
assign it to a button.
In the one expression, so
let's see how that would work.
So I'm gonna comment this out, the local
class, let's look at the syntax for
an anonymous class,
we'll do that by putting but
print, print dot set on click listener,
and again that's very similar to the line
above that's commented out, but what we're
doing now is we put new OnClickListener.
Now, as I'm starting to type,
you'll notice,
IntelliJ actually does this for us.
It actually comes up with the braces and
the three dots, and
what that actually means is,
if you press return here now, it's gonna
create that anonymous class for us.
So, I'll press enter, and
you notice what it did?
It actually created that for
us automatically.
So, it created the OnClickListener.
It also created the override, and
it actually created the on
click method itself,
which of course we have to implement for
this on click listener interface, and
from there we can actually
type title was clicked.
So in all other aspects it'll
work the same if we run this.
Pressing one there, and
zero I can still exit the program.
So the main syntax,
the main difference rather,
was we're not creating a separate class.
In this case, in the first case of
the local class we're created one.
We used the name Click Listener,
and that's a local class, but
this one here is a second example.
That's an anonymous class and
that's because we used a new one click
list w button dot on click listener.
Which was added by Intelli j and
there's no name there because it's been
implemented there and
then within the brackets.
So that's what an anonymous class is for.
And you can say that we overrode the on
click method which we needed to do in
order to actually ensure that we actually
implemented the interface correctly.
And it actually does that quite nicely.
So the new objects got no name, and
it's declared in the expression passed as
a parameter,
to the button set unclick list or method.
So you've now seen the various
types of inner classes.
I'm gonna end this video here, and in
the next video, it's time for a challenge.
We're going to test your understanding of
this so, I'll see you in the next video.